Newsletters: add 315 (2024-08-09) (#1815)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2024-08-09-newsletter.md

    significantly.

  - *Requires pool miners use a private template from the pool:* not
    only would a template be required to prevent the 100% invalid shares
    attack but the pool would need to keep that template secret from
    pool miners until after all shares generated using that template
    were received.  The pool could use that to trick miners into
    producing PoW for transactions the miners would object to.  However,
    expired templates could be published to allow auditing.  Most modern
    pools generate a new template every few seconds, so any auditing
    could be performed in near real-time, preventing a malicious pool
    from tricking its miners for more than a few seconds.

  - *Requires share submission:* one of the advantages of Stratum v2 (in
    certain operating modes) is that an honest pool miner who finds a
    block for the pool can immediately broadcast it to the Bitcoin P2P
    network, allowing it to begin propagating even before the
    corresponding share has reached the pool server.  With oblivious
    shares, the share would need to be received by the pool and
    converted into a full block before it could be broadcast.

>   Towns concludes by describing two of the motivations for fixing the block

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Towns concludes by describing two motivations for fixing the block
```

Author: Leaving as-is.  I think "two of the motivations" expresses that there are other motivations; "two motivations" sounds like there's only two motivations.

Reviewer: Well, then it would be "the two motivations".

Author: Still leaving as-is, for the reason stated.

  withholding attack: it affects small pools more than large pools, and
  it costs almost nothing to attack pools that allow anonymous miners,
  whereas pools that require miners to identify themselves can ban known
  attackers.  Fixing block withholding could help Bitcoin mining to
  become more decentralized.

- **Statistics on compact block reconstruction:** developer 0xB10C
  [posted][0xb10c compact] to Delving Bitcoin about the recent
  reliability of [compact block][topic compact block relay]
  reconstruction.  Many relaying full nodes have been using [BIP152][]
  compact block relay since the feature was added to Bitcoin Core 0.13.0

>   in 2016.  This allows two peers which have already shared some

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  in 2016.  This allows two peers who have already shared some
```
(or maybe "peers that have"?)

  unconfirmed transactions to use a short reference to those
  transactions when they are confirmed in a new block rather than
  re-transmitting the entire transaction.  This significantly reduces
  bandwidth and, by doing so, also reduces latency---allowing new blocks
  to propagate more quickly.

  Faster propagation of new blocks decreases the number of accidental
  blockchain forks.  Fewer forks reduces the amount of proof-of-work that
  is wasted and reduces the number of _block races_ that benefit larger
  mining pools over smaller pools, helping to make Bitcoin more secure
  and more decentralized.

  However, sometimes new blocks include transactions that a node has not
  seen before.  In that case, the node receiving a compact block usually
  needs to request those transactions from the sending peer and then
  wait for the peer to respond.  This slows down block propagation.

>   Until a node has all of the transactions in a block, that block can't

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Until a node has all the transactions in a block, that block can't
```

Author: Leaving as-is.  It sounds more correct to me with the preposition.

  provide all of the information necessary to immediately validate a new
  block with no additional transactions needing to be requested, called
  a _successful reconstruction_.  Gregory Maxwell [recently
  reported][maxwell reconstruct] a decrease in successful
  reconstructions for nodes running Bitcoin Core with its default
  settings, especially when compared to a node running with the
  `mempoolfullrbf` configuration setting enabled.

  Developer 0xB10C's post this week summarized the number of successful
  reconstructions he's observed using his own nodes with various
  settings, with some data going back about six months.  Recent data on
  the effect of enabling `mempoolfullrbf` only goes back about a week,
  but it matches Maxwell's report.  This has helped motivate
  consideration of a [pull request][bitcoin core #30493] to enable
  `mempoolfullrbf` by default in an upcoming version of Bitcoin Core.

<!-- FIXME:harding update ephemeral anchors topic to include P2A -->

- **Replacement cycle attack against pay-to-anchor:** Peter Todd
  [posted][todd cycle] to the Bitcoin-Dev mailing list about the
  pay-to-anchor (P2A) output type that is part of the [ephemeral

>   anchors][topic ephemeral anchors] proposal.  P2A is an transaction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  anchors][topic ephemeral anchors] proposal.  P2A is a transaction
```

  output that anyone can spend.  This can be useful for [CPFP][topic
  cpfp] fee bumping---especially in multiparty protocols such as LN.
  However, CPFP fee bumping in LN is currently vulnerable to a
  counterparty performing a [replacement cycling attack][topic

>   replacement cycling] where the malicious counterparty perfroms a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  replacement cycling] where the malicious counterparty performs a
```

  two-step process.  They first replace an honest user's version of a
  transaction with the counterparty's version of the same transaction.
  They then replace the replacement with a transaction unrelated to
  either user's version of the transaction.  When an LN channel has
  unresolved [HTLCs][topic htlc], a successful replacement cycle can
  allow the counterparty to steal from the honest party.

  Using LN's current [anchor outputs][topic anchor outputs] channel
  type, only a counterparty can perform a replacement cycling attack.
  However, Todd points out that, because P2A allows anyone to spend the
  output, anyone can perform a replacement cycling attack against
  transactions using it.  Still, only a counterparty can economically
  benefit from the attack, so there's no direct incentive for third
  parties to attack P2A outputs.  The attack can be free in the case
  where the attacker is planning to broadcast their own transaction at a

>   feerate higher than the honest user's P2A spend and the attacker is
>   able to successfully complete the replacement cycle without their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  feerate higher than the honest user's P2A spend and the attacker
  can complete the replacement cycle without their
```

  intermediate state getting confirmed by miners.  All existing deployed
  LN mitigations against replacement cycling attacks (see [Newsletter
  #274][news274 cycle mitigate]) will be equally effective at defeating
  P2A replacement cycling.

- **Proposed BIP for scriptless threshold signatures:** Sivaram
  Dhakshinamoorthy [posted][dhakshinamoorthy frost] to the Bitcoin-Dev
  mailing list to announce the availability of a [proposed BIP][frost
  sign bip] for creating [scriptless threshold signatures][topic
  threshold signature] for Bitcoin's implementation of [schnorr
  signatures][topic schnorr signatures].  This allows a set of wallets

>   that have already performed a set up procedure to securely create

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  that have already performed a setup procedure to securely create
```

  However, Todd points out that, because P2A allows anyone to spend the
  output, anyone can perform a replacement cycling attack against
  transactions using it.  Still, only a counterparty can economically
  benefit from the attack, so there's no direct incentive for third
  parties to attack P2A outputs.  The attack can be free in the case
  where the attacker is planning to broadcast their own transaction at a
  feerate higher than the honest user's P2A spend and the attacker is
  able to successfully complete the replacement cycle without their
  intermediate state getting confirmed by miners.  All existing deployed
  LN mitigations against replacement cycling attacks (see [Newsletter
  #274][news274 cycle mitigate]) will be equally effective at defeating
  P2A replacement cycling.

- **Proposed BIP for scriptless threshold signatures:** Sivaram
  Dhakshinamoorthy [posted][dhakshinamoorthy frost] to the Bitcoin-Dev
  mailing list to announce the availability of a [proposed BIP][frost
  sign bip] for creating [scriptless threshold signatures][topic
  threshold signature] for Bitcoin's implementation of [schnorr

>   signatures][topic schnorr signatures].  This allows a set of wallets

Reviewer 2: perhaps signers instead of wallets in this news item?

>   that have already performed a set up procedure to securely create

Reviewer 2: Is a reference to https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2024/07/19/#distributed-key-generation-protocol-for-frost applicable here?

  `MergeLinearizations` for combining two existing linearizations, and
  `PostLinearize` for improving linearizations by additional processing. This PR
  builds on work discussed in last week’s Newsletter [#314][news314 cluster].

- [Bitcoin Core #30352][] introduces a new output type, Pay-To-Anchor (P2A), and
  makes its spending standard. This output type is keyless and enables compact,
  txid-stable anchors for [CPFP][topic cpfp] fee bumping. Combined with
  [TRUC][topic v3 transaction relay] transactions, this advances the
  implementation of [ephemeral anchors][topic ephemeral anchors] to replace
  [anchor outputs][topic anchor outputs] based on the [CPFP carve-out][topic
  cpfp carve out] relay rule, for LN commitment transactions.

- [Bitcoin Core #29775][] adds a `testnet4` configuration option that will set
  the network to [testnet4][topic testnet] as specified in [BIP94][].  Testnet4
  includes fixes several problems with the previous testnet3 (see [Newsletter
  #306][news306 testnet]).  The existing Bitcoin Core `testnet` configuration
  option that uses testnet3 remains available but is expected to be deprecated
  and removed in subsequent releases.

> - [Core Lightning #7476][] catches up to the latest [BOLT12

Reviewer 2: Perhaps proposed since the BOLT12 PR is still open
```suggestion
- [Core Lightning #7476][] catches up to the latest proposed [BOLT12
```

  specification][bolt12 spec] updates by adding the rejection of zero-length
  [blinded paths][topic rv routing] in [offers][topic offers] and invoice
  requests. Additionally, it allows `offer_issuer_id` to be missing in offers
  with a provided blinded path. In such cases, the key used to sign the invoice
  is used as the final blinded path key, since it's safe to assume that the
  offer issuer has access to this key.

- [Eclair #2884][] implements [BLIP0004][blips endorsement] for [HTLC
  endorsement][topic htlc endorsement], becoming the first LN implementation to
  do so, to partially mitigate [channel jamming attacks][topic channel jamming
  attacks] on the network. This PR enables the relaying of incoming endorsement

>   values, introducing a reputation system for LN where relaying nodes can choose

Reviewer 2: Im not sure this suggestion is true, but I think it is and would be an important distinction

```suggestion
  values, introducing a local reputation system for LN where relaying nodes can choose
```

Author: Had to rewrite a bit to get the local in there in a way that made sense to me, but I agree that it was an important distinction.

  [#257][news257 eclair].

- [LND #8952][] refactors the `channel` component in `lnwallet` to use the typed
  `List`, as part of a series of PRs implementing dynamic commitments, also
  known as [channel commitment upgrades][topic channel commitment upgrades].

- [LND #8735][] adds the ability to generate invoices with [blinded paths][topic
  rv routing] using the `-blind` flag in the `addinvoice` command. It also
  allows payment of such invoices. Note that this is only implemented for BOLT11
  invoices, as [BOLT12][topic offers] is not yet implemented in LND. [LND
  #8764][] extends the previous PR by allowing the use of multiple blinded paths
  when paying an invoice, specifically to perform multipath payments
  ([MPP][topic multipath payments]).

- [BIPs #1601][] merges [BIP94][] to introduce testnet4, a new version of
  [testnet][topic testnet] that includes consensus rule improvements aimed at
  preventing network attacks using only CPU mining. All previous soft forks are
  enabled from the genesis block in testnet4, and the port used is `48333` by
  default. See Newsletters [#306][news306 testnet4] and [#311][news311 testnet4]

>   for more details on how testnet4 fixes the issues that led to the fall of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  for more details on how testnet4 fixes the issues that led to problematic behavior with
```

Author: The Fall of Testnet3 according to ChatGPT  :-)

![A_dramatic_and_heroic_battle_scene_depicting_'The_](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2faffc19-303a-4fbd-8f41-2861e543c051)

  such a way that they leak information about the underlying key
  material, such as a private key or a [BIP32 HD wallet seed][topic
  bip32].  Once an attacker obtains a user's seed, they can steal any of
  the user's funds at any time (including funds spent in the transaction
  that results in exfiltration, if the attacker acts quickly).

  The authors mention that the best previous key exfiltration attack of
  which they are aware required dozens of signatures to exfiltrate a
  BIP32 seed.  With Dark Skippy, they are now able to exfiltrate a seed
  in two signatures, which may both belong to a single transaction with
  two inputs, meaning all of a user's funds may be vulnerable from the
  moment they first try to spend any of their money.

  Key exfiltration can be used by any logic that creates signatures,
  including software wallets---however, it's generally expected that a
  software wallet with malicious code will simply transmit its seed to
  the attacker over the internet.  Exfiltration is mainly considered to
  be a risk for hardware signing devices that don't have direct access
  to the internet.  A device that has had its logic corrupted, either

>   through its firmware or through hardware logic, can now quickly exfiltrate a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  through its firmware or hardware logic, can now quickly exfiltrate a
```

  data is transferred using NFC, SD cards, or QR codes).

  Methods of performing [exfiltration-resistant signing][topic
  exfiltration-resistant signing] for Bitcoin have been discussed
  (including in Optech newsletters as far back as [Newsletter
  #87][news87 anti-exfil]) and are currently implemented in two hardware
  signing devices that we are aware of (see [Newsletter #136][news136
  anti-exfil]).  That deployed method does require an extra round trip
  of communication with the hardware signing device compared to standard
  single-sig signing, although that may be less of a downside if users
  become accustomed to other types of signing, such as [scriptless
  multisignatures][topic multisignature], that also require additional
  round trips of communication.  Alternative methods of exfiltration-resistant
  signing that offer different tradeoffs are also known,
  although none has been implemented in Bitcoin hardware signing devices
  to our knowledge.

  Optech recommends that anyone using hardware signing devices to protect
  substantial amounts of money guard against corrupted
  hardware or firmware, either through the use of exfiltration-resistant

>   signing or through the use of multiple independent devices (e.g. with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  signing or multiple independent devices (e.g. with
```

Author: Leaving as-is.  This puts the verb ("use") too far from the second term ("multiple independent devices").

  scripted or scriptless multisignature or threshold signing).

- **Block withholding attacks and potential solutions:**
  Anthony Towns [posted][towns withholding] to the Bitcoin-Dev mailing
  list to discuss the [block withholding attack][topic block
  withholding], a related _invalid shares_ attack, and potential
  solutions to both attacks---including disabling client work selection
  in [Stratum v2][topic pooled mining] and oblivious shares.

  Pool miners are paid for submitting units of work, called _shares_,
  each of which is a _candidate block_ that contains a certain amount of

>   proof of work (PoW).  The expectation is that a portion of those

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  proof of work (PoW).  The expectation is that some of those
```

  shares will also contain enough PoW to make their candidate block
  eligible for inclusion on the most-PoW blockchain.  For example, if
  the share PoW target is 1/1,000<sup>th</sup> of the valid-block PoW
  target, the pool expects to pay for 1,000 shares for every valid block
  it produces on average.  A classic block withholding attack occurs
  when a pool miner does not submit the 1-in-1,000 share that produces a
  valid block but does submit the other 999 shares that are not valid
  blocks.  This allows the miner to be paid for 99.9% of their work but
  prevents the pool from earning any income from that miner.

  Stratum v2 includes an optional mode that pools can enable to allow
  miners to include a different set of transactions in their candidate
  blocks than what the pool suggests mining.  The pool miner can even
  attempt mining transactions that the pool doesn't have.  This can make
  it expensive for the pool to validate miner shares: each share can
  contain up to several megabytes of transactions that the pool has

>   never seen before, with potentially all of them being transactions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  never seen before, all of which may be
```

  [ChillDKG][news312 chilldkg]) to securely create
  signatures that only require interaction from a dynamic subset of
  those signers.  The signatures are indistinguishable onchain from
  schnorr signatures created by single-sig users and scriptless
  multisignature users, improving privacy and fungibility.

- **Optimistic verification of zero-knowledge proofs using CAT, MATT, and Elftrace:**
  Johan T. Halseth [posted][halseth zkelf] to Delving Bitcoin to
  announce that his tool, [Elftrace][], now has the ability to verify
  zero-knowledge (ZK) proofs.  For this to be useful onchain, both
  [OP_CAT][topic op_cat] and the [MATT][topic acc] proposed soft forks
  would need to be activated.

## Bitcoin Core PR Review Club

*In this monthly section, we summarize a recent [Bitcoin Core PR Review
Club][] meeting, highlighting some of the important questions and
answers.  Click on a question below to see a summary of the answer from
the meeting.*

  [# Add PayToAnchor(P2A), OP_1 <0x4e73> as standard output script for
  spending][review club 30352] is a PR by [instagibbs][gh instagibbs]
  that introduces a new `TxoutType::ANCHOR` output script type. Anchor

>   outputs have a `OP_1 <0x4e73>` witness program (resulting in a

Reviewer 3: Witness program refers to just the data push part (`0x4e73`):
```suggestion
  outputs have a `OP_1 <0x4e73>` output script (resulting in a
```

Reviewer 4: Ah right, thanks!

  as?"
  a0="Because it consists of a 1-byte push opcode (`OP_1`) and a 2-byte
  data push (`0x4e73`), it is a valid v1 witness program. Because it is
  not 32 bytes, it doesn't qualify as a `WITNESS_V1_TAPROOT`, thus
  defaulting to a `TxoutType::WITNESS_UNKNOWN`."
  a0link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/30352#l-18"

  q1="Based on the answer to the previous question, would it be standard
  to create this output type? What about to spend it? (Hint: how
  do [`IsStandard`][gh isstandard] and [`AreInputsStandard`][gh
  areinputsstandard] treat this type?)"
  a1="Because `IsStandard` (which is used to check outputs) only
  considers `TxoutType::NONSTANDARD` to be non-standard, creating it
  would be standard. Because `AreInputsStandard` considers a transaction
  that spends from a `TxoutType::WITNESS_UNKNOWN` to be non-standard, it
  would not be standard to spend it."
  a1link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/30352#l-24"

  q2="Before this PR, with default settings, which output types can
  be _created_ in a standard transaction? Is that the same as the script
  types that can be _spent_ in a standard transaction?"
  a2="All defined `TxoutType`'s except `TxoutType::NONSTANDARD` can be

>   created. All defined `TxoutType`'s except `TxoutType::NONSTANDARD` and

Reviewer 3: (technically)
```suggestion
  created. All defined `TxoutType`'s except `TxoutType::NULL_DATA`, `TxoutType::NONSTANDARD` and
```

Author: Nice catch!

  announce that his tool, [Elftrace][], now has the ability to verify
  zero-knowledge (ZK) proofs.  For this to be useful onchain, both
  [OP_CAT][topic op_cat] and the [MATT][topic acc] proposed soft forks
  would need to be activated.

## Bitcoin Core PR Review Club

*In this monthly section, we summarize a recent [Bitcoin Core PR Review
Club][] meeting, highlighting some of the important questions and
answers.  Click on a question below to see a summary of the answer from
the meeting.*

  [Add PayToAnchor(P2A), OP_1 <0x4e73>, as standard output script for
  spending][review club 30352] is a PR by [instagibbs][gh instagibbs]
  that introduces a new `TxoutType::ANCHOR` output script type. Anchor
  outputs have a `OP_1 <0x4e73>` output script (resulting in a
  [`bc1pfeessrawgf`][mempool bc1pfeessrawgf] address). Making these
  outputs standard facilitates creating and relaying transactions that
  spend from an anchor output.

{% include functions/details-list.md
  q0="Before `TxoutType::ANCHOR` is defined in this PR,
  what `TxoutType` would a `scriptPubKey` `OP_1 <0x4e73>` be classified
  as?"
  a0="Because it consists of a 1-byte push opcode (`OP_1`) and a 2-byte

>   data push (`0x4e73`), it is a valid v1 witness program. Because it is

Reviewer 3: Missed this in my previous review, same reason:
```suggestion
  data push (`0x4e73`), it is a valid v1 witness output. Because it is
```

Author: Fixed, thanks!
